HOWTO.txt: A beginners guide to entering the UCC::ProgComp 2010.

If you get stuck at any point, consult, in this order:
 - documentation for the ProgComp
 - Google
 - progcomp-orgainser@ucc.asn.au

=== Setting up a development environment ===

The ProgComp will work best for those running Mac OS X or Linux, but 
Windows is also supported.

All competitors will need Python, a modern, object-oriented scripting 
languages. Python comes pre-installed on Mac OS X and modern Linuxes - 
Windows users must download it from 
http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7/

Then software you'll then need depends on the language in which you wish 
to program. The most up-to-date details, including some useful links, 
can be found at http://progcomp.ucc.asn.au/FAQs under "What software do 
I need to enter?"

Set up the relevant software now - we'll assume you have it working in 
the rest of this document.

=== Trying out the sample agents ===

Full sample code is supplied for all the supported languages.

Pull up a terminal/command line prompt. Change directory to the src/ 
subfolder (*nix path conventions will be used throughout) and type 
"python simulate.py -v"

You should see some output as "Angel", "Lucifer", "Streetfighter" and 
"Wash", the 4 sample agents, battle it out. If you an error is raised - 
well, that's a bit awkward. It's probably due to your python 
installation - check that, check the FAQs, then google the error 
message, then if none of that works, contact us.

If you're using Python, take some time to poke around at 
SampleAgents.py, then skip to the next section.

If you're using C/C++, Java or MATLAB, follow the instructions in the 
src/link/<language> directory to get those agents running. Again, if 
something goes wrong, check the documentation, the FAQ, Google, and then 
if still stumped, contact us.

Take some time to poke around at the sample code and get a handle on 
what's going on and how it works.

=== Making your own ===

Here's where you have to do the thinking. Your agent must consist of a 
single source file, and provide the same function definitions as the 
sample agents.

Consult the documentation for each language to see how to write an agent 
in your language of choice. Start in the "src" directory.

=== Submitting your own agent ===

Procedures for submitting your own agent will be released by email and 
on the website soon. Stay tuned.

Submitting your agent is not the end of the fun, either. All going 
well*, there should be a running leaderboard, so you can watch your 
agent compete, if you wish, or you can keep its runnings secret until 
the final judgement.

* This includes the organiser not dying of a caffeine overdose or 
developing a psychiatric injury as a result of overloading and 
co-ordinating. Your mileage may vary. UCC members may donate to the coke 
account 'dja' if they wish to keep me supplied with coke and pizza 
during this time.
